# Contributing to go-amizone

We welcome contributions to Amibot-tg from the community. If you would like to contribute, please follow these steps:

1. Fork this repository
2. Create a new branch (`git checkout -b dev/my-feature`)
3. Make your changes and commit them (`git commit -am 'Add my feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin dev/my-feature`)
5. Open a pull request

Please make sure your code follows the [PEP 8](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/) style guide and includes any necessary documentation or tests.

## Requirements

To use Amibot-tg, you'll need:

- Python 3.11 or higher
- The following Python packages:
  - pymongo
  - grpcio
  - protobuf
  - google-api-python-client
  - grpc-gateway-protoc-gen-openapiv2
  - python-telegram-bot
  - python-dotenv
- A token generated by the Telegram BotFather
- Miscellaneos:
  - [Poetry](https://python-poetry.org/docs/)
  - [Nodemon](https://nodemon.io/)
  - Docker

## Getting started

Clone the repository:

```shell
git clone https://github.com/achintya-7/Amibot-tg.git
cd Amibot-tg
```

### Installing dependencies

1. Install Python dependencies:

    ```shell
    poetry install
    ```

2. Install Nodemon

    ```shell
    npm install -g nodemon
    ```

## Updating the Token

Before running the bot, you'll need to update the token in the `env.py` file with the token generated by the Telegram BotFather. To generate a token:

1. Open Telegram and search for the BotFather.
2. Send the BotFather the `/newbot` command.
3. Follow the prompts to name and create your bot.
4. The BotFather will provide you with a token for your bot. Copy this token and replace the 'token' keyword with it.

    ``` python
    TOKEN = os.environ.get("TOKEN", "token")
    ```

    To something like this!

    ``` python
    TOKEN = os.environ.get("TOKEN", "5123422892:ABEyasfEXf...")
    ```

## Generating Protobuf

If you make any changes to the `amizone.proto` file, you'll need to regenerate the corresponding Python code. You can do this by running the following command:

```shell
make gen
```

## Setting Up MongoDB

To run the bot, you'll need to set up a MongoDB instance. You can use Docker to create a local instance by running the following command:

```shell
make mongo
```

## Running the Bot with Nodemon

If you want to automatically restart the bot whenever you make changes to the code, you can use Nodemon. Run the following command instead of `poetry run python main.py`:

```shell
make dev
```

## Usage

Once the bot is up and running, you can use the following commands to interact with it:

- `/start`: Start the bot and display the available commands.
- `/login "amzione_id" "amizone_password"`: Logs you in Amizone.
- `/attendance`: Get your attendance information.
- `/schedule`: Get your class schedule.
- `/about`: Get details about our project.
