# Amibot-tg

Amibot-tg is a chat bot that provides a faster and more reliable alternative to the Amity University student portal. With Amibot-tg, you can access all your essential information, including your grades, attendance, class schedule, and more, directly from Telegram. Say goodbye to the inconvenience of logging in to the Amizone website and enjoy the convenience of Amibot-tg on Telegram.

## Table of contents

- [Amibot-tg](#amibot-tg)
  - [Table of contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Features](#features)
  - [What Makes Amibot-tg Different?](#what-makes-amibot-tg-different)
  - [Future Plans](#future-plans)
  - [Requirements](#requirements)
  - [Getting started](#getting-started)
    - [Installing dependencies](#installing-dependencies)
    - [Updating the Token](#updating-the-token)
    - [Generating Protobuf](#generating-protobuf)
    - [Setting Up MongoDB](#setting-up-mongodb)
    - [Running the Bot with Nodemon](#running-the-bot-with-nodemon)
  - [Usage](#usage)
  - [License](#license)

## Features

Here are some of the features of Amibot-tg:

- Interactive and easy-to-use interface: Amibot-tg provides a simple and intuitive interface on Telegram, allowing you to access your information with just a few taps.
- Access to attendance and class schedule: Amibot-tg already provides information on your attendance and classes.
- Works even when network connectivity is limited: Amibot-tg works even when you have limited connectivity, allowing you to access your information anywhere, even on Campus smile! Since Amibot-tg uses Telegram, you can see previously queried information even when you are offline.
- Platform independent: Got an iPhone? No problem. Use Amibot-tg on anything that runs Telegram.

## What Makes Amibot-tg Different?

- No need to install an additional app: Unlike other solutions, Amibot-tg does not require you to install a separate app on your device. You can simply use the Telegram app that you already have installed.
- Lightweight and efficient: Amibot-tg uses a textual format for data, requiring less bandwidth and making it more efficient than other solutions. It will even work on slow internet connections!
- Open-source: Review the code, contribute to the project, or even host your own instance.

## Future Plans

- **Faculty feedback:** Amibot-tg targets a big pain point in the average Amity student's life: Faculty feedback. It can automate the process for you, filling feedback for all your faculties at once.
- **Allow students to schedule daily delivery of class schedules and attendance information:** In the future, Amibot-tg _might_ allow you to schedule daily delivery of your class schedule and attendance information via a Telegram message.
- **Access Exam Schedule:** Allow students to access exam schedules if available.
- **Automated Class Schedule:** Daily delivery of class schedule.
- **Add to calender:** Add class schedule to calender.

## Requirements

To use Amibot-tg, you'll need:

- Python 3.11 or higher
- The following Python packages:
  - pymongo
  - grpcio
  - protobuf
  - google-api-python-client
  - grpc-gateway-protoc-gen-openapiv2
  - python-telegram-bot
  - python-dotenv
- A token generated by the Telegram BotFather
- Miscellaneos:
  - [Poetry](https://python-poetry.org/docs/)
  - [Nodemon](https://nodemon.io/)

## Getting started

Clone the repository:

```shell
git clone https://github.com/achintya-7/Amibot-tg.git
cd Amibot-tg
```

### Installing dependencies

1. Install Python dependencies:

    ```shell
    poetry install
    ```

2. Install Nodemon

    ```shell
    npm install -g nodemon
    ```

### Updating the Token

Before running the bot, you'll need to update the token in the `env.py` file with the token generated by the Telegram BotFather. To generate a token:

1. Open Telegram and search for the BotFather.
2. Send the BotFather the `/newbot` command.
3. Follow the prompts to name and create your bot.
4. The BotFather will provide you with a token for your bot. Copy this token and replace the 'token' keyword with it.

    ``` python
    TOKEN = os.environ.get("TOKEN", "token")
    ```

    To something like this!

    ``` python
    TOKEN = os.environ.get("TOKEN", "5123422892:ABEyasfEXf...")
    ```

### Generating Protobuf

If you make any changes to the `amizone.proto` file, you'll need to regenerate the corresponding Python code. You can do this by running the following command:

```shell
make gen
```

### Setting Up MongoDB

To run the bot, you'll need to set up a MongoDB instance. You can use Docker to create a local instance by running the following command:

```shell
make mongo
```

### Running the Bot with Nodemon

If you want to automatically restart the bot whenever you make changes to the code, you can use Nodemon. Run the following command instead of `poetry run python main.py`:

```shell
make dev
```

## Usage

Once the bot is up and running, you can use the following commands to interact with it:

- `/start`: Start the bot and display the available commands.
- `/login "amzione_id" "amizone_password"`: Logs you in Amizone.
- `/attendance`: Get your attendance information.
- `/schedule`: Get your class schedule.
- `/about`: Get details about our project.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE)
